(upbeat music)
We're drinking some meat.
We are drinking meat.
This is a sparkling meat that I got in California.
It's a place outside of San Francisco.
Friends, friends Heather and Ryan took us out.
Very strange place, like very unique place.
A bunch of varieties of meat,
which I didn't really know was a thing.
It was, it's sparkling made with champagne.
That makes it different than normal meat,
but there were like 12 varieties that they had there
and they were each pretty unique.
They still had a little bit of that honey vibe to it,
but like the honey itself was different
based on what the bee had pollinated and gotten from.
There's a lot of science that people smarter than me
could probably fill in here and listen to her
could probably Google this shit.
So the place is Hydron Metery.
It's in Point Ray's station, California.
It was, it's an awesome place to go.
Also, Point Ray's station was this like adorable little town
out in the middle of California somewhere.
Like it had an awesome bookstore where like,
if I wasn't, if I hadn't flown there,
I definitely would have just left for like 20 bucks.
Like high weirdness.
Oh yeah.
And then like a feel, like a book,
just recording people on how they do their field recordings.
That's awesome.
And there was like two other books I got
and like I would have,
only cause I had to take them home on a plane.
I could have kept going.
So yeah, the whole place was great.
And yeah, this meat, this fantastic.
So what the hell were you doing in California today?
Yeah, what the?
Not just getting meat, I presume.
It was not.
I was there for the recombinant festival.
It was put on by not of rhythm and noise
for all of the old industrial nerds.
- Aspidl record label was his.
- Yeah.
Yeah.
It was an insane lineup.
The show was astounding.
If anyone has a chance to go,
I have not a single bad thing to say about it.
Like from the time we got there to the time we left,
it was amazing audio visual.
And then like the, the video was like,
two stories tall or maybe even higher,
maybe three stories, like half a football field wide,
four K and like a variety.
Like one thing would be like weird shapes.
The other one was like this decomposed,
like decaying building modeled.
And then it was like morphing into other things.
Finesse, by tone.
And then like just weird maniacs from San Francisco.
All of them were fucking amazing.
Like there was no, there was no filler.
There's no downtime.
It was just like every act after the other was great.
So that's why we were there.
But then we went to this other place to the Metery.
- Sweet.
- And the variety we have now we're drinking is the
moddrus.
- Yeah, that's correct.
- Oh, close enough.
Moddrus carrot blossom.
It doesn't even taste that much like carrot.
- Yeah.
- Very refreshing.
- I saw that and was wondering what to expect.
But it's just like hard to describe in words,
especially as I'm not like a meat drinker.
So I can't like describe it as well as like a tea
or something like that.
- Right, right.
Yeah, I don't know what the,
even like the wine sort of doesn't seem like
it's applicable here.
But no, I love it.
And it was, and like I said, we were there.
We were getting flights while the varieties they had.
And each one was very unique.
Like all of it was well outside of like my idea of like
sort of like honey, mead.
Someone couldn't taste any honey at all.
- Yeah.
- It's really light too.
It's not as like syrupy, thick as like some other meat
I've had before.
- That's what I've always envisioned mead being.
Like just really syrupy, thick, like honey
with alcohol in it basically.
I've only tasted it one time and it was a little too thick
for my liking, but I haven't tried it since.
- Do you want to try some of this?
- Yeah, I got a lime bubbly.
- All right.
- Right here.
Do you want to go, do you want to give us all the flavor
notes on that lime bubbly?
- No.
Sorry.
- I had one of those the other day and I thought it tasted
more like a sprite than other kind of,
it was like a sprite without the sugar.
- Yeah, I was into it actually.
- I think it's from the same
evil corporation.
- Right.
- I think bubbly is, it's either Pepsi or Coke.
Let me look on the ball.
It's one of the big ones.
I can't find it on there, but yeah, I know bubbly is like
Pepsi or Coke's version of La Croix.
So that's a bottle.
- I might explain the similarity there.
It's probably the same artificial flavorings.
- The same muskrat gland was used.
We expressed this muskrat into the same vial.
- A sprite.
(laughs)
- What if that's the thing we get sued over?
What's the, that's finally, that's the line we crossed.
- That is a trade secret, sir.
- All of our muskrat extraction is cruelty free.
- We do let them vape, bro.
- I feel like I just went into the void there.
It's like, I don't know what to do with anything right now.
- So, I mean, we didn't really talk about this beforehand,
but I mean, is there anything we need to address
with the coronavirus and its relationship with synthesizers?
- I think we should.
I think we should give our listeners a little context.
- Yep.
- Via coronavirus limiting all of our existences.
- We're locked down government mandate today
on the day of March 15th.
- The Ides of March.
- Yeah.
- We're supposed to be aware of them.
- Fuck.
- Fuck that up.
- It's impacting module manufacturing.
- Oh yeah, yeah.
- Good point.
- Quite an extent.
That's one of the major contributors to the delay
of us getting our effects aids.
- Yeah.
- Modules from happy nerding.
The Chinese manufacturing.
- Yeah, China's on lockdown still.
- Factories that build our shit are not functioning.
Not manned.
People are still quarantined over there.
So delayed the manufacturing of the last batch
of that module for like a month.
And I think the next batch is finally being made right now
and shipping out the places like Schneider's Layton
and things like that.
- Now is it still being manufactured in China
or are they found alternative sources?
- I think so, yeah.
- It was just a, they had a wait for the delay
to be over.
It's about all I know about it.
You know, he didn't provide a whole lot of insight.
I just know it was manufactured in China
and the factories closed basically due to Corona.
So it's been a month behind.
And Alokhaven hasn't gotten the second batch in
which it sold out of the first batch like immediately.
- Yeah.
- It's looking like made to April now or something like that.
But yeah, that's one that got me.
I'm like ridiculously into that.
Like just the stereo effect nature of it
and the way he has like mono signals working
and it just sounds like really good.
I'm pretty into it.
- I'm hyped for it.
The amount of algorithms he's making available is insane.
I even like requested a couple of custom ones
and he managed to whip it up within a couple of days.
Yeah. - Oh, yeah.
- Oh, nice.
- I wanted a reverb that was kind of similar
to a pedal from Earth Quaker devices
which is no longer in, what's the word?
- No longer in production?
- Production, thank you.
I don't know why my brain isn't working today.
It's been discontinued.
And I always wanted like a module version of that pedal
with some CV functionality which seemed like
it could be easily done 'cause it's not that complex.
It's just called the Earth Quaker Trans-Misser.
- I'm not familiar with that one.
- Yeah, it was a deal with that one.
It's a mono reverb that has its own feedback loop
filter built in.
It achieves a weird resonant screechiness
that you can hit.
It's good for drones, things like that.
I've always been fascinated by the pedal of it.
And I just always wanted a little module of it
that you could CV things like the frequency
and things like that.
And he was able to whip up an algorithm
that was his interpretation of it within a couple of days.
- And lots of made the pull, yeah.
- So is there gonna be updates like that?
Is there gonna be firmware updates
or some way to add new algorithms?
- Oh yeah, he's been doing it like every few days.
- Oh wow.
- Yeah, he's adding more and more to it.
- An app to manage some of that.
So you get like 32 effects on the module at one time
and then there's an app that you could use
to kind of like shuffle those things on to there.
- Rearrange them, put on ones you want,
take out ones you don't.
- Do you know how it connects to the module?
- I do not, not off the top of my head.
- I was gonna say hopefully it's not picket.
- Yeah, yeah hopefully.
- I don't think anyone uses picket except Scott.
- And now I can't find a fucking programmer
and like Spark fun and DigiKey,
they're all like, I mean get on the waiting list.
- You should just sell the chips at that point.
That's what four millisecond did
'cause they had, you had to get a picket
to like update the peg and stuff.
And they just ended up selling the chips.
So I just bought those.
- Certain shops also offer updating services.
- That's true.
- I'm just gonna bring it to like control or
which is something like this.
- I just don't wanna get a picket for this one fucking thing
where I never use it again.
- Right.
- But hopefully the FEX aid does not actually have
that route and it's just you just jam a USB in there.
- It has to be nice.
- If they're gonna make an app like something.
- That's cool though.
Frankly, I was super interested in it
and then I saw it was really hard to get
and I just kind of stopped paying attention.
I was like, I'll wait, maybe in a year
when it's readily available.
- I did too.
I gave up 'cause Greg had been saying like,
oh, this thing is unobtainium kind of.
- Yeah.
- And then I saw the comparison to the Strymon pedal
and I was like, oh shit.
And then he started to go into a few more algorithms
and I'm like, dude, this is like kind of,
this would be amazing to have in my modular.
- Absolutely.
- It's like one sixteenths the size of a ZDSP.
And it's definitely smaller than the new Tiptop
like Z series.
- Right.
- And even the Strymon.
- Yeah, and the Strymon.
- The big gigantic Strymon modules.
- Magneto, yeah.
- Or even some of their pedals,
which I had like a weird rig for a while
to route out of the modular and TRS stereo in and out
through the pedals back in and all that shit.
- I'm not fucking with that anymore.
- Yeah, I can't. - It's kind of a pain.
- It's also stereo in, which a lot of effects modules
still aren't.
- Yeah, that's cool.
- Including all the Tiptops.
- Yeah, yeah.
- The effects idea.
It crammed a lot of good functionality into a tiny package.
- We were talking about last episode about like
the sort of like the evolution of stereo in your rack.
- It still blows in mind that the Tiptops are all monoman.
- Yeah, I don't like that.
- Why?
- I still go back to the idea that they just saw
so many people using a stat cable to go from left to right.
- Sure.
- I've been doing it for years.
- Yeah.
- If you make a lot of mono modules too,
it's just be like, "Ha, this fits in our model."
- Yep.
- Fuck you.
- Yeah.
- But like what if you want two effects modules?
You want to route your Tiptop delay
into your Tiptop reverb?
You know what I mean?
I don't know.
It just seems like you're making your shit more
incompatible for people who want to double down
on like the Tiptop effects line up and shit like that.
It was one of the deciding factors that made me
cancel my pre-order, which I had with Perfect Circuit
for the Z5000 and instead decided I was going to get
two effects hates instead.
- Yeah.
- Why wouldn't you?
- You know, it doesn't make sense to get the Z5 over that.
- I mean, except for the fact that I'm still waiting now.
- Yeah.
- But other than that, yeah, it made sense to me.
- Alright, so what do you got here?
No, yeah.
What I just slapped on the table is an MPC1,
which is a, you've used Noct track before.
- I have.
- This is one of the most complicated goddamn machines ever.
- Are you shooting me?
- There is every feature you've ever imagined
that would be an MPC is jammed into this thing.
- I thought that was the point of the one
is to not be that.
- No.
- Like I thought the X and the live were kind of supposed
to be very versatile, kind of convoluted.
And this was supposed to be like the stripped down,
easier to use, easier to perform with option.
- You would think that.
- Okay.
- There's, it's the same operating system basically.
So it is like, it's like trying to learn,
like it's like somebody gave me an Amiga basically.
And like I have to figure out how to do what I do on it,
which is cool.
Like there's a touchscreen,
there are a million icons on every page.
There's every like, you know, JJOS on the MPC 1000,
like they started adding all these features.
Like, you know, recording mutes as you're playing them
and stuff like that.
And it kind of does that by default now.
Like I was recording my first sequence
and was like, this is going fucking crazy.
What's going on?
And then realized like in the system settings,
mute recording was turned on by default.
So I realized like every time I muted something,
it was picking it up in a recording.
It's like, oh shit, like this is kind of weird.
- This seems like a cool feature.
- Yeah.
- It's something people wanted for the 1000 for years
and JJ finally added it.
So it's like they took every feature on there,
put it in here, but also put like good effects on top of it.
And it's like, it can do everything the rack samplers
can do like key groups and different like,
you know, like having, it'll auto sample.
So you can hook it up to a synthesizer.
It'll play like C1 note into it sample that,
trim it to be a perfect pad and then go through
the whole octave range depending upon how you set it.
So you can just play that synth away from the machine.
They got that feature working and like this operating system.
- That's amazing.
- Yeah, that was cool.
Like that's something I'm gonna try to use.
So it's got like a lot of promise.
Every way you could imagine slicing a sample.
Like recycle style, like you can actually create the slices
as the sample plays by hitting the pads
and it'll assign that slice to that pad.
Like it's got crazy shit.
Like as far as slicing goes, it like they nailed it.
It's like everything I ever wanted from a rack sampler
jammed into here.
That being said, like it's mad confusing
when you turn it on.
Like, you know, the, I knew the electron stuff
and so do we and like you can turn that on
and kind of use it.
This is like, you're gonna sit down with the manual
for a while and figure out like,
how do I make a note like longer than one step?
So how is it confusing?
Is it too many options?
Is it an esoteric language?
Both.
Like, so if you know like an NPC
and I've had the 2000 back in the 90s
and then I had the 1000.
So you know about like sequences
and how they're not like a sequence
and it's like a collection of everything
and you know about projects and programs
and then like tracks within programs.
It's got all that.
But it also has this Ableton style clip functionality.
You get 16 pads with all your track shit on it
like normal NPC, but you also have another 16 pads
in clip mode where you can just play like Ableton style clips
that you record in this thing alongside it.
So wait, do you switch modes?
'Cause you only have the 16 pads.
It's weird 'cause you go to,
it's like a program type is clip.
And then when you go to that program type and hit edit,
you get like all 16 pads.
You're like in a different mode all of a sudden.
That's the stuff that'll kind of fuck your head up.
When you're like, oh shit, I'm somewhere else.
Like I'm on, you know, you're in a snot Pluto anymore.
Or like I've got to figure out like what the fuck I'm doing.
And that's the shit they don't explain very well either.
Like even in the manual,
you kind of figure out there are a bunch of different ways
you can record stuff.
Like there's a looper,
but you have to go through like 10 steps
to get the looper to play into one of those clip things.
Whereas it should just be there,
like ready to play you would think if you take a loop.
So that's a long winded way of saying that you can do like
MIDI synced MPC and Ableton style loops that record.
And then you like automatically have those on a clip,
but you have to go through steps to like assign those
to the clips, you know what I mean?
You can do a lot of things that I wanted to do from this.
Like I wanted an MPC like I've always had.
I wanted the ability to stack effects that sound good,
which you do and you can automate the fuck out of them
and it'll do that.
MPC 1000 would die when you like automated too many
of the effect parameters.
They also sounded like shit,
but it would also just fuck up.
This handles it, it seems like very well.
And you get like a CPU meter
and that's the only thing you've got a fight against.
You've got as much ability to fuck this up
as you have CPU left over.
- Do you find yourself hitting that?
Like over the course of you working with it,
what's the range you're hitting?
- It's a good point 'cause it seems like they dynamically
assign CPU finally in a way that doesn't make it pop and click.
Like if you mute things,
it seems to reduce the CPU meter basically.
So that's kind of cool and that if you have a bunch of chains,
you can kind of like mute shit
and you can get some of that power back.
- As opposed to playing it and then having muted it.
- Yeah.
- But like still allocating resources to it.
- Exactly.
Like even if you muted it's still like memory resonance,
you know it's still gonna be hogging like that CPU
and addresses and stuff like that.
So it's good, it's got like a huge touchscreen.
You're really working the touchscreen a lot I found.
I would not want the MPC Live just knowing that they brought
all these soft buttons out here that you can do stuff
'cause just having to use the touchscreen for all that
would kind of suck.
- Especially in the club.
- Yeah. - Like you're sweating.
- This was what was annoying me about the force also.
- Right.
- There was a lot of buttons but like there wasn't enough
overlap, you know what I mean?
Like some stuff you had to use the touchscreen for
and that kind of drove me insane.
- I kind of want the force but like,
it's like I want some of the functionality
that only put on there for the clip stuff
and the way they made it easier to get to a recording
to a playable clip.
This has like a layer of abstraction on top of that
but the force also like has a synthesizer
this doesn't have.
Like the cool thing, this is the first MPC
with like built-in synths and the one like tube synth
is just a regular like two-off synth
with a bunch of different like, you know,
modulators and stuff and it's like, it's okay.
It's not bad but there's also like one called hype
that's only on the force that has wave table stuff
that's not on this.
So it's like, why are you like, are you gonna,
is that gonna be on here?
'Cause they kind of sell it right now
as like a force only feature.
It's like, well, I want the wave table synths
like I don't, you know.
So. - Gotta buy them all Nick.
- You do but that thing is bigger than a laptop.
- Yeah, this is enormous.
- This is already pretty big.
This is like a fucking computer.
You can tell it's a Windows embedded computer
'cause even when you turn the power off,
it's like, oh, you wanna shut down.
Do you wanna save your work first?
I'm like, oh, I thought you just turned the fuck off.
- Force was the same way, yeah, yeah.
- Like, yeah, it has a boot up, you know.
- Right, and I can see the vent on the back here.
Like, this is having actual fan.
- It gets warm. - Okay.
- It doesn't have a fan, but the sides are plastic
and they're all like completely air exposed.
So it gets warm.
It's got MIDI sequencing.
Like the CV outs I have not tried yet,
but I'm super hopeful to like hook it up to my modular
and just sequence that.
But you don't get like an LFO.
You get like a bunch of like parameter lock knobs
you can sign to CVs basically, which is super attractive.
Like, I'm into that, but you can't like
- Peram LFO out of the CV outs or anything like that.
You're gonna have to do that with a module.
So, but that's cool, I'm into it.
Like CV gate pitch, mod wheel,
and then just kind of like fuck up two parameters, you know?
Like, I'm into that.
Like two more outputs would have been fucking great.
Sacrifice the CV outputs
and have two more audio outputs.
There are already people that are like,
oh, I hope we can send audio out of the CV outs.
I'm like, maybe, but they didn't design it that way.
More MIDI IO, like it was the thing they skimped on
that the live has and the X has is like more inputs
and outputs.
They kind of punted on that.
You can do MIDI over ethernet
as of like last week with the last update.
- You also have actual 5-pin MIDI USB
two variations of USB.
- Yeah, 'cause you can do USB host, which is cool.
So you can try to keyboard up.
Haven't tried that yet, but I'll probably try that.
And the other one's just upgrades
and computer integration and stuff like that.
- It looks nice.
- It is nice.
Like you could see like it's hard to notice,
but there's like the tolerances on the manufacturing.
There's a bigger gap over here on the screen
than there is over here.
This one's totally flush.
This is like a 16th of an inch.
I would say gap on the display.
You can tell it's as cheap as they could make it
and still make it right.
- It looks like an NPC.
- Yeah, it looks like an NPC.
The pads are maybe the shittiest ones
I've ever had on an NPC.
Like the NPC 1000 pads were not great.
You had to buy like replacements.
These are okay.
I like that they light up and have different colors.
It's nice to like organize that.
You can see the velocity difference.
Like all green is low and the red is high.
Some of that shit's cool.
The effects sound good.
It sounds great.
These NPCs are not known for their effects.
So what's new?
- The NPC 1000 was like a joke as far as the effects go.
They sounded like shit.
You were never getting updates.
This actually has effects from a Kai
and from this company Air.
And it turns out this company Air
does all the effects for Pro Tools that are by default.
And those sound pretty good.
- Are they like utility effects?
- Yeah, but some of them are nice.
You get like, there are tons of them.
You get like 20 different delays.
And it's like a ping pong delay
and then a stereo ping pong delay.
And that's one with like a band pass filter.
Like they did a good job at adding a lot more effects
than I've ever seen on an NPC where that was kind of a joke
unless you bought like an expansion card
or something like that.
- So in each of those are the parameters automatable?
- Yes.
- Oh, that's nice.
- That's a nice feature.
You can automate the shit out of everything.
So you get like these four knobs on the side
and these are the Q-Link ones
and then you hit this button to kind of page
through the different pages for effects.
I've run into one incident so far
and I'm on the latest OS where the Q-Link thing
that hovers over the parameters went away
and I had to like manually assign the knobs.
It was one like bug I ran into.
I haven't reproduced it since, but you could tell it was like,
okay, this thing's gonna be like kind of flaky, you know?
Like it's not perfect.
But you are an early adopter.
- Yeah.
Oh yeah, no, this has only been out for a couple of months.
The OS is supposed to be robust
but this is the first time it's used on this machine.
- How's it function slave?
Maybe try it again.
- I have not yet.
I've only had it mastered so far.
So I've got to try like that's the next thing.
I set it up last night in the studio
before I kind of tore it down to bring it here
and like that's the next step.
But as a master, like I ran it for hours
with sampling stuff and it was just running away.
Timing seemed great, like no issues.
- That's cool.
- Yeah.
So I'm hopeful.
It's a nice size.
I'd like to run like kind of a set with this in the rhythm
and maybe small modular rig.
It's kind of where I'm at right now, but we'll see.
(electronic music)
- I hope these stuff should I talk about?
- Let's see.
I mean, the things you have in Triplekit
is probably a good starting part.
- Yeah.
(laughing)
- I forgot to.
- That wasn't like that last episode.
- No, you're right.
- That is a newer change.
Yeah, I'll talk about that a little bit.
So I got rid of my factory,
my mutual instruments factory versions of grids and rings
and replaced them with a knock off,
a clone, so to speak.
Little controversial, I know.
But it saved me a lot of space.
I was able to fit almost three clone rings
into the space where I had one factory rings
and I was able to fit exactly two grids
into the space where I had one factory grids.
So it was helpful for me to compact things down
and get more functionality in the same amount of space.
Yeah, I don't know how I feel about it myself.
I feel a little guilty for doing it.
Also, just the company that seems to be all they do
is just kind of whip up smaller sized versions
of the mutable stuff and that's kind of
like their whole business model.
The company was called MoMo Modular.
Maybe it's MooMoo, I don't know how it's pronounced,
but really cool people, they cut me a deal
for buying multiples, which was nice
and also saved me on the shipping.
They have a website, but I was doing all the dealings
through Reverb, they have a store shop on there.
But it's interesting, yeah, I don't know how I feel
about it, the knobs are tinier, little cramped, obviously.
But I mean, to get that size though,
those are tremendously smaller
than the original form factor.
Half the size.
Is it really half?
Exactly, half.
Yeah, I fit two of those in the exec space
where I had one factory.
Yeah.
Man, if we could make rubberized,
really small knobs like that that would go over
those type, that would be awesome.
Yeah, that would be awesome.
'Cause they're pain in the ass.
Like you said earlier, it's kind of like that.
You can't go from one to 10 smoothly,
you've gotta go one to eight.
Yeah, fuck.
Like the Pittsburgh Voltage Lab,
all the CB inputs are the mini pots
and that's the main thing that's like, ah, fuck.
I feel like there are things where that sort of course
and this is fine.
Yeah.
But I mean, there's stuff you really wanna dial into.
There were patches live that I wanted to change the
CB input potentiometer on and I was like,
this is kind of shitty right now.
Like I couldn't dial it in.
Like I've got tiny fucking alien hands too.
Like I don't like, it's generally not a problem,
but that was a problem.
I mean, as someone who has literally
the exact opposite problem.
Yeah, I feel you do.
We have sausage fingers.
Plus I keep having these issues where my joints swell.
I don't know if I'm getting fucking arthritis or what.
Yeah, I got that too.
It's nice.
Yeah, but I do have a full row of mutable stuff now.
And I feel like I've given mutable quite a bit of cash
over the years.
Oh fuck yeah.
And you know, so I don't feel quite so bad
of phasing out some of the factory versions
with the clones.
And I still have plenty of factory models too.
So two factory plates over there, three factory marbles.
So.
Oh, I know it's Magpie, I should cut you a check.
Yeah.
I have a lot of Magpie panels now.
Everything that I could swap the black
has been swapped to black with the exception
of the Chaos devices stuff.
On my 7U, I'm down to three modules.
I know I've got two or three
and it's gonna be a fucking pain, man.
Chilling me.
As far as, like even beyond the aesthetics of it,
I just love being able to see white labeling
on a black panel.
Yeah, it's so much easier to see.
Especially in a dark room or a club, you know.
I don't, this is the dumbest thing,
but it like calms me down to you.
I don't know why, but like just to look at a black panel,
I'm like, ah, like it, it, the simplicity of it.
It is like a black and white world.
Want everything to be?
Cray scale.
Yeah.
But yeah, the Chaos device stuff is next.
I, I don't know, like a blush response.
I noticed lately he's been digging on the Odessa.
Oh, okay.
He's been posting a lot of like Instagram videos of it.
And I'm like, cool.
His is black.
And I'm crazy jealous of him.
But I have no idea where he got the black panel from.
Cause like, I've, all the retailers in the States
don't have it.
I hit up Chaos devices and they said,
oh, they're available.
Talk to your retailers.
I'm like, where?
Cause like no one here has them yet.
I take it.
You still like the Odessa?
I love it.
Yeah.
I like the whole look and the interface of it.
That was one of the main reasons why I bought it.
Like I've, I've been kind of fiendin' for a complex oscillator.
You know, I mean, there's a few modules out there
that don't do the exact same thing,
but it gets you into weird complex oscillator territories
and whatever.
I wasn't too happy with a lot of them.
The interfaces, not the sound.
Yeah.
I mean, like sound wise, if I could pick any just based on sound,
it would probably be a heard stone at Mark 3.
Fantastic fucking module.
However, I kind of don't like how Scott crammed so much
functionality into that little menu system.
And, you know, I mean, bounce in between what oscillator
and what mode you're working on, things like that.
Yeah.
I wanted everything to be upfront.
And everything is with the address.
There's no menus, there's no hidden anything.
It's just all upfront, everything's accessible.
I'm pretty happy with the sound.
My only complaint is the fact that you can't get rid
of the fundamental frequency on the harmonic outs.
Oh, even odd.
It's always present.
Even though there's a dedicated fundamental out,
it's also present on the other two even odd outputs.
Yeah.
Well, they said they basically couldn't do it easily.
So people have been asking that maybe it'll happen in a future update.
They were very clear in saying they feel that the Odessa is done,
the firmware is filled, and it would be a pain and he asked to update
and they don't want it to ever really need to be updated.
So they're kind of considering a closed book at this point,
which is a little disappointing.
And it actually encouraged a bit of an argument on the muff forums
I noticed there was people arguing with them,
because they were saying basically because of the chipset,
it can't be updated.
And there was people pointing out that, like, that's poor shit.
You can sell the chip.
There's always an option, basically.
So yeah, it started a little bit of controversy,
because I'm not the only one who has also been, I guess,
disappointed with the fact that you can't get rid of the fundamental.
Also, as a Zadar owner, their update isn't going to fucking work.
Yeah.
Straight up.
There's that too.
So yeah, maybe it was a lesson learned with the Zadar.
And they don't want to really just try to update anything.
But no, for the moment, like, I haven't had too much time to dive into the Odessa
or the R-Bar, which are the two big ones that I've gotten recently.
I just haven't been in the vibe.
I've been mainly working on percussion stuff lately.
I've been getting way more into, like, the physical modeling stuff and rings
and being able to run things into rings.
It was nice in that regard.
Buying cycles, rather, was more like a goal I had for live performance.
Right.
I wanted a drum machine that was digital, versatile, and yet not overly complicated
to do some FM's type stuff.
You know, I mean, something that I could replicate some of what I do in the
modular in a drum machine.
And originally, I was on the market to get back a Nord drum too.
Oh, okay.
Because I miss mine.
Yeah.
But it's like impossible to get one now.
It's been a while.
I remember you having one.
Yeah.
But that was a while ago now.
It was.
Yeah.
Well, yeah, I sold the Nord drum because I had started doing all my FM drum stuff
in the modular.
Yeah.
Now, I don't want to bring my modular out for live stuff.
So it's like, how do I get FM drum stuff live?
Right around the timeframe when I was thinking about pulling the trigger on a Nord
drum, because there was one posted up on Muff, but then the cycles came out and I said,
well, fuck it.
I'll give that a shot.
$100, yeah can't really like is it as fun as the plats is for like FM drum stuff
No now I still prefer plates. Yeah, yeah, it's as close to a plates drum machine that I've found so far
Yeah, you know what I mean? especially because it's all like macro based you you know, I mean like
So wait before we get too far
Do you wanna give a sort of overview high-level?
Description of cycles and sort of like ease a little listener into this. Yeah. I'm referring to the new
FM drum machine
Electron cycles not to be confused with the Indian bike shop of the same name
That Google keeps trying to send me to
Tell you what those guys probably have never seen this much website traffic
They're like, why are we what do we do with our adding a smart right now?
It's even spelled the same way like with the K electron cycles. Yeah, holy shit exact same spelling and like yeah
So they've been bumped up to like the number one result on Google now
But this is the electron model cycles, so
But yeah, it's a FM based drum machine
I
Guess you could use it as a sense if you really wanted to it's not really set up for that, you know
But you get six
Models or machines rather that you can set up for track in any order
You get kick snare metal perk tone and chord
So those you can consider that like your macros, you know like you put on a plats or braids
You know, it's a starting point
We originally decided that the Digitone was a preset box back when it was first announced. Yeah
This is definitely a preset box like a hundred percent. We went too early. We did. Yeah
The Digitone is a box full of experimental potential compared to the cycles
It is very limited. Well, there's a ton of presets isn't like 500 or something
Fucking epic tonic. Yeah, you can store 60,000 or something like that. It's like 90,000. Yeah, oh Jesus
Yeah, they said theoretically it's like infinite, but like they noticed that things would probably start to fuck up for you around 90k
But in my opinion, there's no way in hell you're even gonna make a fraction of that because the thing is so limited in scope per
Machine you're not gonna have that much deviation to warrant a lot of presets
You know, I mean like you they have a shit ton of kick drum presets and they're already for example
All of them are just marginally different, you know, they all have the same like kind of basic sound
They all still sound like you're using the kick drum machine
You're not gonna really make your kick drum machine sound like the metal machine
It's not that open-ended like on a Digitone. What are you changing if you can change it at all?
It's a little nebulous like they're all worded the same on the panel, but they're doing different things per machine
They have like contour exactly. You got like contour shape
Color, but you don't have like individual operator and modulator. No, sir. No, sir at all. That's a new me
Yeah, I mean the entire basis of FM is to have these modulators and carriers and that's completely hidden from you
Yes
You're not doing FM synthesis on this missing you're tweaking a handful of parameters that are locked into a very small variety of
you know
sonic
differences
You're not
Getting into like the root of the FM synthesis or anything like that
Because even on the and like there's no way you could dial one machine really to sound like another
It's not that versatile like if you're using the kick machine you're locked into the kick machine and the little
Variances that you can do with it. You want something to sound metallic. You're gonna have to load the metal machine
You know I mean things like that you're not gonna have this wide range this this palette like you would on like a Digitone where you could
Shape, you know things this be different. So you can load different ones per track
Yeah, you can load any like if you want all six tracks to be the kick machine. Yeah, you can do that
You can arrange them in any order on any track that is one of the big pros for this thing in my opinion that you're not
Locked in per track, right? Yeah, like like you are on most drum machines
We're like yeah, you're like fuck if I only had one more
Kick and I would get rid of the rim shot so I can have another fucking kick machine
You know me it won't let me do that right you can on this and that's a huge bonus
I think that's one of the smartest choices they made with this thing was the flexibility of that and there's a few other things that I
Thought really make it stand out
Like I did not foresee myself buying another electron device anytime soon
this one kind of pulled me back in and
I don't regret the decision like after spending some time with it. I like it. It's certainly limited
I think a lot of people are going to be making things that sound the same with it. Yeah, you know what I mean
It's gonna take someone who's really into the machine to
Find a way to make it sound unique
I'm just president have a machine that was just like to op and it's just like carrier modulator
Infinite flexibility like you can get two of these things to modulate each other and help with sound the closest to that
Leasten my messing around with it is the tone machine. Okay. I've my two favorites are a tone and perk
I feel like those you can kind of
Get a little more versatile with
My least favorite surprisingly is the snare and the metal. Hmm. Oh why sounds like shit
It sounds like shit. That was one of the main reasons why I bought this thing
I was like that's fucking cool. It has a whole mode dedicated to it, but it is
Super limited and it just does not sound that good. All right. Um, it's meant to be used as like symbols, you know
Sure, right, right. Um, but I feel like it doesn't even do symbols that well let alone being able to do the weird
Disident shit that I tend to pull out of FM things like the BIA and even right in plates
From what I was reading or I'm sorry. I didn't read it. It was a it was a interview
I think at I think it was that perfect circuit with the guy who made this thing and he was talking a bit about the metal machine
He was saying originally he wanted to emulate the machine drum
Yeah, hi hat, which is right. Okay, but in my mind. I hear that and I'm like, oh, they should just put the machine
I'm high-high on it right well
That's kind of what he was trying to do and he said originally he was told that that was just like I think a two-up
Yeah thing and he said he tried as hard as he could to get it using two-up
And then it turns out it's actually not there was some weird shit that they had going on with it
That it was like an eight-op type of thing. Oh shit
Yeah, so he had to like come up with a fancy way to make it that as
It is currently
And it's cool, but it could definitely be better. Yeah, or at the very least a little more versatile, you know
It just sounds kind of like a bad analog crash symbol
Right, you know like even at its best point you can do some hats with it
But I find I feel like doing using some of the other machines. I've been able to dial in better hats
So yeah, the metal machine was pretty disappointing all of these presets like if you set the envelope or you you
huh envelope
What envelope?
That's another part of it is you don't get anything like that. No ADSR all you have is decay and
Not even a sec. So that is on my cons list. It's like I didn't even realize I was wandering into a con. Yeah
Wow, so it's a drum machine
with no envelopes
Oh, you get a decay and the decay itself is kind of like me, but that's
Yeah, all you can do to even like try to get like an attack is to rig up the LFO
No, that's what they always try to fuck you. You do and yet you only get one LFO
Yeah, then you're locked in there. You have no modulation except for parameter locking at that point
I don't think if you've to goddamn LFO is like just I tell you what that yeah, that was the number one
Well, no, there's the two biggest
Complaints I had about this thing was a you're locked to one LFO and be only one stereo output what yeah
That's a relation my opinion. It's huge oversight
I mean you can hard-pan them and you could parameter lock the panning if you wanted to try to create some sort of weird stereo space
Yeah, exactly like who's that would just be so tedious for such a basic fucking thing
You know
But yeah, that's my top two complaints because the effects are not that great. They're very limited and they're global
So the reverb and the delay sends are not per track
They're global and they don't sound that great like the never move away from that shit
Yeah, I'm convinced that the delay the only options you get is time and feedback
the reverb the only options you get is tone and size and
So yeah, I'll very limited and so you're like well fuck it. It's limited right, you know
I'll just I'll effect externally
Not gonna happen if you only have one stereo fucking help
But the your only option at that point especially for like a live performance perspective is the hard pan
Left right and break it, you know like
Basically
And I was already thinking of how to do this for my live setup
I wanted I was gonna split the chance the tracks in half have the you know first three har pan left is
second three har pan right right would be going to like the modular for yeah reverb and
Gran your granular processing the left would be going through distortion shit like that
But it's just a bummer that like yeah at least one extra stereo set which you could then do like a four channel mono
setup of processing would be
Fine even two channels this NPC has four stereo effects per pad
So it's like very different ballgame than many of the electron devices. So yeah, it's it's got some good things going for it and it's got
some bad so
Like right now what's the Vegas odds on you having one when we come back to record the next episode
I don't see myself getting rid of it. Okay, like for 300 bucks. It's a cool little drum machine sure and I can dial in some stuff
That's fun
That I can now fuck with live and not have to bring out my entire modular drum machine to do
So yeah, I don't see a gun anywhere, but at the same time like I don't see it getting much use in the studio
Right like this is probably gonna be just a fun toy to use live or you know, it's super lightweight
It's super cheap. I can save everything to presets. You know me. Yeah, it'll function for what it needs to be live
It's just too limited in my opinion to really
You know program with it in the studio. I would yeah, I'll just use my modular or any other device really right right
So yeah, when I'm not preparing to do a live show, it's probably gonna be collecting dust
But it is cool because it's got
All the probability stuff built in. Oh, that's cool. It also has resolution per
Track yeah, so you can have things going at different time signatures different lengths
So you can get kind of complex in that way
You're just not gonna be getting too complex sonically
You know, I mean you're gonna be working within the confines of those machines or macros whatever you want to call them
And you can do some scinthe stuff with the cord and the tone machines. They're like yeah for that basically
Again without an envelope though. It's just gonna be yeah a little strange
You're gonna be doing little like plucky percussion, you know little FM leap lops
Which is cool because that's what I wanted to know
For the most part it just sucks that I wouldn't be able to expand upon it a little bit with this and the model samples
They couldn't have made them look more generic in my opinion
There's like this like oh they look like shit beige like yeah
They wanted to make it look like a pill or something like that
It's like the most generic thing possible. Yeah weird devoid of branding like and like it has this weird sort of like like it
They didn't lean into any sort of like retro vibe. No, it's just
office computer. Yeah
And they supplied some stickers with it and they even have some retro like old-school computer
graphics on it like you can't even read the ones that are supposed to be words like
this made me laugh because
They literally look like shit
Like not like aesthetically like shit, but like literal shit. I'll show you hang tight. Oh
You mean the font is shit. Oh, what stuff this is somebody smearing shit or actually just what?
Those colons do those or do those not look like turds. Yeah
Yeah
Intestines and poop. Yeah, I don't know. What the fuck just like blobby, right? It just looks like a little pal dog shit
I don't get stunned right now
Right I was cracking up when I unboxed it. I said what the fuck is that because the rest of it has like a very like 8-bit vibe
and then there's shit and
which I
Don't know what's supposed to be I have no idea
But there it is. That's the stickers. That's how you make your little ugly box not look so ugly is my covering it and shit
Stickers there's that big beige gap at the top and I'm assuming all that text right there will fit into that
Otherwise, it's pointless, right? Like it does not fit there. Not at all. That fucking blows my mind right there
You cannot fit this sticker on there at all without and this is what the dude who made it did you pull the knobs off
You line it up you cut holes in the sticker and then you can align it around
Does sound amie quitting life. Yeah, that's a low-grade style flipping here. Yes. I don't know like there's some really good choices here and
You know and then there's some really questionable ones. What the
I'm so confused. I cannot tell if I love or hate this machine. Yeah, but theater box like it's kind of hard to fuck with
That's the thing you know, it's 300 bucks like I know I'm going to get my 300 bucks worth out of it
So fine so be it
There's a couple little things in there that I like to like if you
You if you make and save a preset and then you load it up and you start changing values
Underneath the value that you're changing. It shows you what your preset value is. Oh, the original value, right? Yeah
Yeah, all this is all the time. Yes, that's and that's a nice little touch
Yeah, I saw that and I was like cool, you know at first I didn't realize what the little number was and I was like what the fuck is it?
And I was like oh that's my original value. It's like dope, you know, that's very useful
Especially when you're trying to make like a kit, you know, and you just want to like deviate from a little bit from your last I
Felt that was a nice touch
It's knob per function, which is also nice. That is cool. If it wasn't I probably wouldn't have bought it
Right, no menus. Right really. I'm really is it 12 knobs? 12 knobs. Yeah, 12 knobs knob per function that as little as that is
That's fucking huge for me. You know, I mean, that's one reason why I've been deviating from electronic over the last few years is too much shit
For one fucking knob, you know too much menu diving. I'm not into that at all
Especially for something like this where you just want to dial in a quick drum sound. Yeah, yeah
But yeah limited on the menu diving
That's
That's about it
As far as good things go we've never done this. I really sound think we've done this
If you had to give this thing a great
Like out of what like this typical sort of school like a
CD it's a C for sure. Yeah, okay
Definitely a C because it's a passing grade it passes exactly. There's nothing that really makes it stand out
Sound wise or even function wise. That's like mind-blowing or new
Or even that good like it sounds mediocre. So this is definitely being phys ed
Where I gotta see you're showing up and dressing got it you get it you get the participation award even the bus response demo
I'm like cool. This is the first good sounds I've heard but also I could hear like when you drive this thing
It sounds a certain way just like the analog rhythm does but like obviously God that distortion kind of sounds like shit
Yeah, there's on board distortion if you turn the volume I think it's past 50% or something like that
You start to slowly get into this weird overdrive
Area per track and did you attack had a separate overdrive all together? Yes, this ain't bad
I mean it it'll crunch it up if that's what you're going for great
But it's not like a character that you're gonna aim for yeah
And it's kind of bad in the sense that there's no other way to mix your tracks
You don't have a filter per channel and that overdrive is your volume per track
So if you're cranking a channel you can't I was gonna have a separate game
No, you can't crank up this and then turn down the gains like once you do that
This is now a dominant feature of your mess. Oh that is gonna be
Overwriting everything else so your only option at that point is to bring up everything else
That was the nice thing about the digit attack having track volume gain and overdrive all being separate
Yeah dial all that in and the rhythm and the analog before had that too where it's like gain and overdrive right right? Yeah, there's no differentiating here
Differentiating between the like volume distortion you're either like at a normal volume level or you're cranking it
And now you've entered their distortion feature and it's like yeah, so it's really hard to
Mix like so I've been actually avoiding the on-board distortion
Just keeping the volume at like a normal like 50 yeah, and then you know routing it through distortion externally
But I could tell when I heard your sample that you posted
I'm like oh someone finally like figured out the gain stage on it because everybody else was just like crushing it internally
Yeah, it sounded like shit it does
That knows there any indication that that's what's happening that because if someone's given a volume knob
They may not know the past noon is when you're going in overdrive
I mean it says it'll show it shows a little waveform when you adjust the track level
It at first it's a clean sign and then it starts to get jagged after you skit like a 50%
I think there's a little arrow on the it's like a dotted volume line
And I think that little dotted arrow is like you know unity, but yeah the gain station is pretty weird
You want to keep it low or else it just starts to get you know
I was keeping it low and then going through my drawn analog
Amplifier module and then I was routing it that way
I was like giving it boost on that much sounds a lot better than the game. We have a motherboard. We're module
Okay, joy analog company. Yes. It's all the way on the right there. It's just like a I don't think we've talked about it though
It's just and just an amplifier left right or AB balanced
gain and it saturates pretty good if you crank it
Sounds nice. They've made a few pretty cool modules recently to our analog like some analog filters
I think and some other stuff
Yeah, I think those be sticking around it's just I don't want to say I'm disappointed with it
It is what it is. Yeah, nothing more. Yeah, nothing less
You know what I mean? Like if people buy this thinking they're gonna unlock
You know something behind the scenes, you know find the the hidden in between sounds and sweet spots
Good luck cuz it really isn't any that's pretty much everything about that
cycles that I had at least I
Thought we had a question I had about cycles
Well, let's hear it Dave. I had it was a great. I mean you're
I've never known anyone to mess with FM as much as you do. Yeah, I had a lot of questions about that. Yeah
No, it's lost the time. I should have wrote it down. I
Got a varigate again, and it's awesome. Very nice varigate eight. Yeah black this time
Yeah, the dude had black panel. I thought it was a different module at first
I was like what the fuck is that sequence? So it's a very good eight. Okay, cool. That was what I was looking for
It's great for real-time programming. Yeah
Has most of the same quirks that I remember like just kind of deficiencies with it, but uh, it's pretty rad
I like it
So just a recap
What had you gotten rid of it for in the past?
Then we talked about on on the podcast
But it's been a while it might have been the vector in the past
And then I kind of moved on from that to the MIDI box and was just kind of thrashing with sequencers in general
And then I realized that the varigate eight is still a nice like
slider driven very real-time kind of sequencer for a modular and that's what I like about it like the I thought you swapped it for the
The hermod. Oh, yeah, no, I'd eventually got the vector for the hermod
Sold the hair mod again because that was again like way too menu driven for me
It was cool. Oh not to derail the conversation, but did you see that square up?
Is releasing that that rampler? Oh, yeah, the rampler. It looks fucking good
It's like a multi voice synthesizer sampler module for your Iraq, which seems to be pretty like capable
Yeah, I was curious about that because they were teasing it right when I was like getting rid of the hair mod
And I was curious to see what the fuck they were gonna do with that. I'm kind of into it
It's low latency. It seems like they kind of like said like oh, let's do the tip top one
But actually give you some ability to fuck with the thing and have like six of them or something like that at the same time
So I was trying to figure out what I wanted to pair with the flux
percussion oh shit sequencer be a good
That or the assimilator which is like three times the price. Yeah, that's which is like too much for what I need
I don't want to get into that deep of sampling on the modular of determined
But the rampster looks like a nice middle ground right right looks more appealing than like the oh that sample
This the slample slample. Yeah. Oh, yeah, it looks like a nice middle ground between like that
You know that angle and something as crazy as the assimilate. Yeah
Because it seemed to have some real-time
CV options and some good like control
whereas the
Squid sample was kind of weak in that regard. It was like bit rate cut off tune like yeah
Yeah, and it had like shared
Yeah, no hubs and pitch and stuff for yeah, that was weak. Yeah. Sorry. I didn't mean to derail that just pop back in my head for all
Yeah, yeah
Verigate very very good. Yeah, which is cool. I'm glad to have it back. Yeah, yeah
Vergates nice man. So how are you using it now?
Not even a bag. I was using it mostly in the context of that live set and to have like
Sequences that kind of repeated but you know would vary which it's very good for
And it was nice it was like it's so fast and especially I realized they had a bunch of updates recently to like let you
Copy patterns over and kind of work with different variations of patterns a little more easily and I was super into it
I'm still like it's the way I like to
program modular sequences right now because I was using the MIDI box before and that's like
Very different way to go about programming a sequence on a device like that and
Yeah, very good has all those gate outs
and it was just like
Working well with the 301 and for what I was going to do and then like the preset recall kind of playing to that whole vibe
It was nice to have like oh I can easily navigate banks and presets and have like a hundred of these fucking things really quickly
No glove lost. I mean I can't see myself selling it again. Oh nice
Yeah, as far as sequencers going your Iraq. That's kind of the one that
Makes the most sense to me right now. Yeah
So yeah, it was mostly just controlling the voltage lab and the 301 live because it was really easy to um
Just kind of let the voltage lab at a certain tuning and let it be in tune hopefully and then the 301
I was like calling up quick saves which is like preset format and it was really um
I was really caning the fuck out of there.
Two, four, and ADOP FM, since, within the 301 now that some dude made.
Shout out Joe and the 301 for them.
And they're just like, they're fun as fuck.
You can modulate the shit out of every parameter and it was trashy.
It was making great sounds.
So what are they?
They're called XO, which is one modulator and one carrier, and then XOXO, and then
XOXOXO, which were the however many operators, but it was just a nice way to have like
sine wave based like FM synthesis with preset recall and you can modulate like any of the
fucking parameters, like the amount that it's modulating the other operators and kind of
like cross modulate those.
And that was the real gold.
And I was like, okay, like I can instantiate these, make a few little tweaks, save a preset,
then go on the next thing and have it saved.
That's fucking awesome.
Yeah, yeah, that plus the voltage lab was like a nice combination for our lives.
Said to have some sort of recall as long as I didn't touch the tune knob on the voltage
lab.
That was the hardest part is I realized like, oh, I have to like tune these things and
yeah, fuck that live.
Like that's what digital is for right now.
Is there anything else anybody wanted to talk about?
You didn't talk about the flux much, did you?
It's like temporal rhythmic, depression, sequencer or something.
Yeah.
It's got a big name, Dave.
I don't remember what it is.
You lost me a temporal.
Temporal, I think.
I think I'm giving you a hunger.
That's in the name, right?
Yeah.
Temporal.
For high notes.
And this was a Kickstarter that greatly exceeded its goal.
Yeah.
In one day, it like kind of blew up.
I didn't even notice it on muffin first, like they posted about it and I just saw the word
flux and I thought it was the old thread for the flux.
Yeah.
Getting re-bumped so I ignored it.
And then I saw it like getting bumped a few times and I was like, oh wait, this is something
different and I opened it up and it was just like a bunch of clips of very strange rhythmic
variations and I was like, oh, hello.
Yeah.
It's kind of what it's about, right?
It's about like being able to modify different rhythmic variations very quickly.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
Well, that's what it's temporal modulation.
It can do and I hate to generalize like that but it's good for strange rhythmic stuff and
like almost tribal-ish drum rhythms, you know, and things of that nature.
And I noticed even in his examples he used what sounds like Japanese drum samples, which
is cool, you know, but you can do a lot more with that it seems.
Like he has a lot of weird humanized functions built in there and curves to the percussion
stuff so you can do things that are like speeding up and slowing down.
Oh, nice.
It's almost like if you were to have a Zadar and instead of it outputting an envelope to
that wave, it's outputting gates to that wave.
You know what I mean?
For lack of a better way to describe it.
Like it's definitely wave-based.
And it wasn't just gates because each of the four channels have three auxiliary outputs.
Those were only gates also?
Well, let me back up a second.
Well, there's four channels.
Yeah.
Okay.
Each channel has four outputs, your main gate output and then the three auxiliaries.
He has adjusted it now in the beta firmware so that one channel of each of those tracks,
each of those auxiliary tracks can be CV.
Right.
That's it as well or sequence.
So you could essentially have like one main gate, two auxes, one CV per channel or per
track, I should say.
Yeah.
It's a little confusing.
But yeah, it's a beast of a fucking rhythm and sequencer.
It's kind of like the type of thing I've always dreamed about.
It does what I've tried to rig up like my vector and my marbles and my two grids to be
able to handle in conjunction with the Befaco bursts and the logic module.
Yeah.
I mean, I have a whole fucking case over there dedicated to doing what this one module can
do and this module seems like it can do it a lot better.
Yeah.
It's kind of very impressive.
Like it got the bursts in there and the speed variations and he's inputting logic.
So it's all on board.
Kind of like how gate storm can do.
Right.
I don't want to pretend like gate storm doesn't exist.
That's out there and it kind of does some of this stuff too.
It just seems to take it to the next level.
It's not a small module.
But for what it does, I would consider it small.
Yeah.
Like I said, like I have a full rack of shit.
Yeah, what you're replacing that is a fraction of the size.
Yeah.
I don't.
It's still a ways off.
Like it's not scheduled to come out until like August.
Oh, damn.
He's been basically putting out almost weekly updates since the Kickstarter started and
he's been very transparent with this whole process and everything.
And it's evolved a lot since like it was first announced.
Like he just started asking for suggestions on Muff, you know, and like Muff's the type
of place where if you ask for thoughts, you're going to fucking get them.
So like everyone had their own two cents on what flux should be.
And it kind of got overwhelming for me to even read because like everyone had different
ideas and different directions and different thoughts and myself included.
You know, I gave him some feedback on some things which he implemented.
I was like, cool.
And he would like take everyone's suggestions over like a course of a couple of days, reply
to them, talk about what he is going to add based on those suggestions and what he's going
to rethink.
And you know, he was very transparent about the whole thing.
He even redid the whole like initial panel of it so that there would be more modulation
inputs.
But essentially he opened it up to being more modulation possibilities, more destinations.
Like there's a modulation grid in the menu and now each track is going to have capability
to have things pointing to other things.
So you could essentially change your curve or your speed or anything like that.
So you can come up with weird ways to arrange things and now with the possibility of the
CV outs, you can self patch it.
You know, I mean, you can have other channels modulating your other channels, you know,
so it's going to be really interesting.
Aside from like NerdSeek tracker module, like, I feel like this is probably going to
be like the most IDM-ish.
Yeah, you know, focused sequencer out there.
What is some poor modulation synthesis, Dave?
Do you know?
It is modulating the concept of time and time as a, as a, as a, as a curvature of the
time is creating rhythms by modulating the, the linearity of trigger distribution within
a step.
Each step can output a density of between one to 64 triggers.
He did a really good job.
There's a couple of not just weep through that, not just videos, but there's these sort
of like little tiny, like one minute clips of like temporal modulation in action.
It was pretty cool.
They're like, I don't know if it's a hundred percent clear after seeing them, but it gave
me a better idea of like what it was.
Yeah, absolutely.
Those are the things they added to the very gate.
It was the ability to like do bouncing ball between steps so you can modulate like kind
of the time that it would take for those things to hit.
Yeah.
So was this the first thing he's done?
Yes, as far as I'm aware.
Okay.
We'll just kind of came out of nowhere.
In orbit labs.
All right.
So we've discussed this in the past.
I'm pretty hesitant to just dive into a kickstarter, especially from someone who hasn't released
anything.
But this dude's like level of transparency and just like pure excitement for what he was
building.
I was like, fuck it.
I'm in, you know, son of a bitch.
I'm in kickstarter sequencers using the word flux.
You'd be aware.
Not a good story.
But yeah, I hopped on.
Like I said, I think it was number five to back at that morning and that was like within
the first hour or two that I went live because I had a little reminder, but I was asleep
when it actually kicked off.
So you're not that serious?
The person who I wanted to be number one.
I really did.
Because that person serious.
Yeah.
Because this thing was mind blowing to me.
I was like, this is essentially my dream sequencer.
Like in the Olympics, if you came in fifth, there's not even a battle for that.
That's like, what's up, poser?
Yeah.
Maybe the other first people will fall through and then I'll default to number one.
In my heart.
Thank you.
But yeah, no, it looks amazing.
And just like break from the start, you know, he laid out everything.
He even came up with like a chart, you know, describing the whole piece of how he's going
to build this, the time frames.
He was very open to suggestions.
And so just gave me the Mormon fuzzies.
I felt confident in backing it.
So he was talking about, and there's, I think there's one video there now of the temple
spaces can be so short that you can use it as an oscillator.
Yeah.
He had like drones.
So then he was like using it as an oscillator and then applying modulation to it and getting
interesting sounds out of it, which is definitely an atypical use of a gate sequencer.
Yeah.
It's almost like a wave table since the 10th.
And it's pretty strange.
And if you have a sampler or percussion voice that can handle that speed of triggers
and you can have that thing going in a very strange way, typically wouldn't be doing otherwise.
So the potential is kind of through the roof for this thing.
It is.
It's, I mean, at the base level, yeah, you can just have it doing some pretty standard
interesting rhythmic shit.
It sounds like something, even if you were going to trigger it from another sequencer,
it would be useful just to be able to get between steps like the way it can, you know?
Exactly.
And that's like something I've been trying very hard to do over the last year.
It's like find the in between steps that make sense and sound good.
And it's very hard to do on a 909 style sequencer, even with micro stepping.
You know what I mean?
Like you're not going to be able to achieve the type of like curves and I can kind of
achieve that with the Bifaco bursts.
They have CV ins for like the ability to start at the normal speed and then speed up.
So you're increasing the multiplication of the burst or dividing it.
So you can do bouncing ball type shit.
And one of the problems I've had with the Bifaco is despite still being on that grid is that
there's always a little bit of latency.
Once you introduce something like a burst generator into your trigger path, you know what I mean?
It always kind of, and then it makes the rest of the rhythm kind of off and I don't, it's
fucking frustrating to me.
This is all in one, all on board.
Everything will be in time in sync the way I want it to be in a musical fashion.
Pretty fucking excited about it.
And there's a micro SD card for saving a bunch of shit.
Yeah, you can save all your sequences that you come up with.
I don't think it was a huge amount of stuff that you can save to it.
You said that's a stretch goal.
And I think he made it.
Some of the other stretch goals were like phase shifting, additional IO, interface tweaks.
All that's been done.
And then yeah, the four analog envelope outputs, which we also reached.
I think we hit all of the stretch goals on this thing.
Well, someone who wasn't involved in the original project or campaign, can they order
it now after it's closed and finished?
I don't think they can yet.
They're going to have to wait, I think, unless it's on the website, I'm not sure.
I'm still going by the Kickstarter page itself.
It was 350 pounds and I think the non Kickstarter ones, like the non-early birds, I think they're
going to be more like 450 pounds or something like that.
Not substantial.
Yeah.
That means what you get from sleeping.
You snooze, you fucking lose, man.
Right.
Yeah, I don't know.
It's just very interesting.
He added some more like burst generator type of stuff to it as well so you could like
hit it with a gate and then have it go do its like one shot, you know, temporal cycle
of gates.
Yeah.
So, pretty versatile.
I'm excited about it.
I think I'm going to be able to replace quite a bit that's in my percussion sequencing
rack and logic rack with this.
Couple grids.
Couple.
Yeah.
Couple grids, a couple burst generators.
Couple marbles, couple branches, couple plugs.
Oh, you got to keep one plug though.
Yeah.
You might not need to, honestly.
If this thing does all what it says does with the logic stuff, I might not need it.
Let me know how my bat went off you.
But yeah, Flux.
Yeah.
I don't even know what this dude's name is.
I forget.
Let me look him up.
What is he on a muff?
So the guy's name on Muff's is VC oscillator and the muff thread has been kept up to date
by him as the kickstarter progressed as has the thread overall.
He's been pretty good at communicating with everyone that has been commenting or asking
questions or given suggestions.
That's cool.
Yeah.
It's something I wish more people would do.
I feel like the success of this and the transparency of it and how clear cut everything was from
the start, people should take some fucking notes moving forward.
Yeah.
It would definitely inspire me to back more kickstarters.
I mean, even do you think you backed it was a little surprising because we've talked on
day one of the last two.
Yeah.
Usually I wait towards the end just to see how things are shaping up.
You know what I mean?
But yeah, I jumped right in.
Well, not right in.
Head.
Well, you know, for other people actually did that.
God damn it.
Yeah.
I mean, those people are on sleep.
They actually care.
Son of a bitch.
(electronic music)
(drumbeats)